President Donald Trump escalated his complaints about the myriad of investigations he is facing on Thursday morning, tweeting that there was "no reason" for the House Intelligence Committee to open a new, sweeping probe into whether his decision making as president is motivated by financial gain.


Donald J. Trump
✔
@realDonaldTrump
 So now Congressman Adam Schiff announces, after having found zero Russian Collusion, that he is going to be looking at every aspect of my life, both financial and personal, even though there is no reason to be doing so. Never happened before! Unlimited Presidential Harassment....

55.2K
12:13 PM - Feb 7, 2019
Twitter Ads info and privacy
31.3K people are talking about this

Donald J. Trump
✔
@realDonaldTrump
 ....The Dems and their committees are going “nuts.” The Republicans never did this to President Obama, there would be no time left to run government. I hear other committee heads will do the same thing. Even stealing people who work at White House! A continuation of Witch Hunt!

38.8K
12:26 PM - Feb 7, 2019
Twitter Ads info and privacy
23.9K people are talking about this
Trump earlier Wednesday complained that House Intelligence Chairman Adam Schiff had "no basis to" expand his committee's Russia investigation, calling the California Democrat a "political hack."

“It’s just presidential harassment and it’s unfortunate and it really does hurt our country,” Trump told reporters of the new probe.

On Wednesday, Schiff announced that his committee would examine connections between the Trump campaign and Russia to determine whether any presidential decision making is influenced by financial gain.

Schiff earlier Wednesday said he would launch a probe that extends beyond Russian electoral interference and any possible links between the Trump campaign and Russian officials that would examine the president's business and finances.

“The president’s actions and posture towards Russia during the campaign, transition, and administration have only heightened fears of foreign financial or other leverage over President Trump and underscore the need to determine whether he or those in his administration have acted in service of foreign interests since taking office,” Schiff said in a statement, adding that his new probe would examine "whether any foreign actor has sought to compromise or holds leverage, financial or otherwise, over Donald Trump, his family, his business, or his associates."

The chairman responded to Trump calling him a "political hack," saying that it was understandable that congressional oversight "terrifies" the president.

"Several of his close associates are going to jail, others await trial, and criminal investigations continue," he added on Twitter. "We’re going to do our job and won’t be distracted or intimidated by threats or attacks."

The back-and-forth comes after Trump, in Nixon-esque fashion, attacked the ongoing investigations he faces during his State of the Union address.

In that speech, he said, ""If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation."

Recommended

POLITICS
Arizona city officials want border wall's razor wire removed

NEWS
Ungodly abuse: The lasting torment of the New Tribes missionary kids
"It just doesn't work that way!" he added.

In his final State of the Union address, former President Richard Nixon called for an end to the Watergate probe. He would resign as a result of it later that year.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters after a Democratic Caucus meeting on Wednesday that Trump's comment "was a threat."

"The president should not bring threats to the floor of the House," she said, adding, "He said he wasn’t going to cooperate unless we didn’t exercise our constitutional responsibility to oversight."

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer told "CBS This Morning" on Wednesday that, to him, the line showed "that the president's scared."

"The bottom line is that we are as a country, we've always had Congress do oversight over the executive branch," Schumer said. "That's how the Founding Fathers set it up."

On CNN, Schumer compared Trump's position on congressional oversight of him to the recent partial government shutdown, which was the longest in U.S. history.

"And the president says if you investigate me I'm not going to make progress," he said. "That's already doing what he did with the shutdown. Holding the American people hostage. He's got something to hide. Because if he had nothing to hide, he'd just shrug his shoulders and let these investigations go forward. He's afraid of them."